[Java] Adding Arrow Java JDBC adapter examples (#229)
apache/arrow-cookbook: java/source/io.rst

Please check :doc:`Dataset <./dataset>`

Reading JDBC ResultSets
***********************

The `Arrow Java JDBC module <https://arrow.apache.org/docs/java/jdbc.html>`_
help us to convert JDBC ResultSets objects into columnar arrow format objects
through Arrow VectorSchemaRoots.

ResultSet to VectorSchemaRoot Conversion
----------------------------------------

The main class to help us to convert ResultSet to VectorSchemaRoot is
`JdbcToArrow <https://arrow.apache.org/docs/java/reference/org/apache/arrow/adapter/jdbc/JdbcToArrow.html>`_

.. testcode::

    import org.apache.arrow.adapter.jdbc.ArrowVectorIterator;
    import org.apache.arrow.adapter.jdbc.JdbcToArrow;
    import org.apache.arrow.memory.BufferAllocator;
    import org.apache.arrow.memory.RootAllocator;
    import org.apache.arrow.vector.VectorSchemaRoot;
    import org.h2.jdbcx.JdbcConnectionPool;

    import java.io.IOException;
    import java.sql.ResultSet;
    import java.sql.SQLException;

    try (BufferAllocator allocator = new RootAllocator()) {
        JdbcConnectionPool pool = JdbcConnectionPool.create(
                "jdbc:h2:zip:./thirdpartydeps/database/jdbc-cookbook.zip!/test",
                "sa", "");

>         ResultSet resultSet = pool.getConnection().createStatement().executeQuery(

Reviewer: ResultSet needs to be closed, right?

Author: Added

                "SELECT int_field1, bool_field2, double_field7 FROM TABLE1");
        try (ArrowVectorIterator iterator = JdbcToArrow.sqlToArrowVectorIterator(
                resultSet, allocator)) {
            while (iterator.hasNext()) {
                VectorSchemaRoot root = iterator.next();
                System.out.print(root.contentToTSVString());
            }
        }

>     } catch (SQLException throwables) {
>         throwables.printStackTrace();
>     } catch (IOException e) {
>         e.printStackTrace();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    } catch (SQLException | IOException e) {
        e.printStackTrace();
```
and ditto below

    }

.. testoutput::

    INT_FIELD1    BOOL_FIELD2    DOUBLE_FIELD7
    101    true    5.6478356785345E10
    102    true    5.6478356785345E10
    103    true    5.6478356785345E10

> JdbcToArrow could be created also with a custom configurations needed with the
> support of `JdbcToArrowConfig <https://arrow.apache.org/docs/java/reference/org/apache/arrow/adapter/jdbc/JdbcToArrowConfig.html>`_
> , it is useful at the moment to work with array columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JdbcToArrow accepts configuration through `JdbcToArrowConfig
<https://arrow.apache.org/docs/java/reference/org/apache/arrow/adapter/jdbc/JdbcToArrowConfig.html>`_.
For example, the type of the elements of array columns can be specified.
```

Reviewer: We talk about arrays and row counts here, what about decimals and other things Todd added?

Author: > We talk about arrays and row counts here, what about decimals and other things Todd added?

I just read that, let me add that also

.. testcode::

    import org.apache.arrow.adapter.jdbc.ArrowVectorIterator;
    import org.apache.arrow.adapter.jdbc.JdbcFieldInfo;
    import org.apache.arrow.adapter.jdbc.JdbcToArrow;
    import org.apache.arrow.adapter.jdbc.JdbcToArrowConfig;
    import org.apache.arrow.adapter.jdbc.JdbcToArrowConfigBuilder;
    import org.apache.arrow.adapter.jdbc.JdbcToArrowUtils;
    import org.apache.arrow.memory.BufferAllocator;
    import org.apache.arrow.memory.RootAllocator;
    import org.apache.arrow.vector.VectorSchemaRoot;
    import org.h2.jdbcx.JdbcConnectionPool;

    import java.io.IOException;
    import java.sql.ResultSet;
    import java.sql.SQLException;
    import java.sql.Types;
    import java.util.HashMap;

    try (BufferAllocator allocator = new RootAllocator()) {
        JdbcConnectionPool pool = JdbcConnectionPool.create(

>                 "jdbc:h2:zip:./thirdpartydeps/database/jdbc-cookbook.zip!/test",

Reviewer: is an in-memory database not possible? Apache Derby lets us do that (that's what I've been using for testing in ADBC, and it's what Flight SQL uses)

Author: Let me update to use Apache Derby also to standardize that in-memory database

Reviewer: Hmm, sticking to H2 is OK then. Didn't realize Derby lacked that

Please check :doc:`Dataset <./dataset>`

> Reading JDBC ResultSets

Author: Ok, lets move it to their own file

                     resultSet, config)) {
            while (iterator.hasNext()) {
                try (VectorSchemaRoot root = iterator.next()) {
                    System.out.print(root.contentToTSVString());
                }
            }
        }
    } catch (SQLException | IOException e) {
        e.printStackTrace();
    }

.. testoutput::

    INT_FIELD1    BOOL_FIELD2    BIGINT_FIELD5    CHAR_FIELD16    LIST_FIELD19
    101    true    1000000000300    some char text      [1,2,3]
    102    true    100000000030    some char text      [1,2]
    INT_FIELD1    BOOL_FIELD2    BIGINT_FIELD5    CHAR_FIELD16    LIST_FIELD19
    103    true    10000000003    some char text      [1]

ResultSet with Precision/Scale to VectorSchemaRoot Conversion
-------------------------------------------------------------

There is a configuration about precision & scale for column data type needed
(i.e. ``JdbcFieldInfo(Types.DECIMAL, /*precision*/ 20, /*scale*/ 7))``) but this
configuration required exact matching of every row to the established scale
for the column, and throws ``UnsupportedOperationException`` when there is a mismatch,
aborting ResultSet processing,

> In this example we have BigInt data type configured on H2 Database, this is
> converted to (``/*scale*/0)`` by default, then we have a ``/*scale*/7`` configured on
> our code, this will be the error message for these differences: ``Caused by: java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: BigDecimal scale must equal that in the Arrow vector: 0 != 7``
> if not applying ``setBigDecimalRoundingMode``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we have a BigInt column. By default, the inferred scale
is 0. We override the scale to 7 and then set a RoundingMode to convert
values to the given scale.
```
